URL: To be tested: https://forms.liferay.com/web/forms/shared/-/form/122548 

-----------  FUNCTIONAL TEST PLAN  ------------------------------------------
-------------------- Functional positive t. cases --------------------------

@Automated
Precond: Liferay form page is displayed in browser and all fields are empty
         Language by default is set and displayed texts are in that language
1)   A user fills in all the compulsory fields and then submits the form 
      Expected: Form is successfully submitted
	        Thank you message is displayed
		'Submit Again' button is available and clickable
                Green tooltip shows up at the left bottom of the Thank you page during some seconds.
				
Precond: Liferay form page is displayed in browser and all fields are empty
         Language by default is set and displayed texts are in that language
2)   A user reloads the page by clicking in reload button
      Expected: Form is reloaded and all the required fields are available
	        Texts are in the same language
		'Submit' button is available

3)   A user resizes the page(zooms in or zooms out), fills all the compulsory fields and submits the form
      Expected: Form is successfully submitted
	        Thank you message is displayed
		'Submit Again' button is available and clickable
		Green tooltip shows up at the left bottom of the Thank you page during some seconds.

Precond: Liferay form page is already filled in with all the required data
4) A user refreshes the page by pressing browser's refresh button or ctrl+F5
    Expected: Form is emptied so all the previously inserted data is gone.

Precond: Execute first positive test case 1
4) A user clicks in backwards button of the browser
    Expected: User lands in the first page and all the previously inserted data is gone.
		
-------------------- Functional negative t. cases

@Automated
Precond: Liferay form page is displayed in browser and all fields are empty
         Language by default is set and displayed texts are in that language
1)   A user does not fill in all the compulsory fields and user tries to submit the form 
      Expected: Form is not submitted
	        The unfilled fields become red and show warning message 'This field is required' in red too.
				
2) A user sets a date in the date field by inserting any char different than a number
	  Expected: the system does not allow it and placeholder shows nothing
	  
3) A user tries to set a date in the date field (which btw follows the format MM/DD/YYYY) by inserting numbers that are out of the
    range for DAYS[01,max day according to the chosen month] and MONTHS [1,12]
	  Expected: the system does not allow it and placeholder shows nothing
	
------------------------------------------ TEST REPORT ----------------------------------------
Here the list of spotted defects:

1) 'what' word should start with capital w in sentence 'what was the date that Liferay was founded?'

2) tooltip of language icon shows "comportamiento" text. In my humble opinion, the text should be 'language/choose language' or something 
 that indicates that user can switch between languages
 
3) Some texts in Portuguese form remain untranslated, before submitting and after submitting the data: 
			'Let´s party rock'  sentence
			'Indicates Required Fields' sentence
			'forms' shows up instead of 'fórmulario' three times in the forms texts
			
4) If language different than English was chosen, after submitting the form data, the displayed message "Thank you. Your information was successfully received. Thank you for filling out the form" and 
button 'Submit Again' remained untranslated.

5) Size limit for text field and text area must be established in order to prevent the system from crashing or prevent extremely high response times
due to huge amount of data being submitted.

6) User is able to set a date in the future which does not make sense according to the question 'what was the date that Liferay was founded?'
A validation mechanism should be established in the date field so when the user clicks in submit button, the form is rejected and the 
system informs the user about this inserted wrong date.

7) In the calendar, the available range of years displayed is more restricted than the one the user can set in the placeholder.
Example: By clicking in the calendar icon, 2017 is the minimun year user can set. But as opposed to that, user can insert in the placeholder
older years than 2017, for instance 1900. This is totally inconsistent. The range should be the same when trying both ways. System
should show an error message in case the date inserted in the placeholder is out of range.

8) Some errors spotted in the Inspect>Console of the browser when loading the Liferay form page regardless of the used browser
See please the following screenshot. Please see attached screenshots as evidences.

-------------------------------- TEST STRATEGY ---------------------------------------------
>>>>Features to be tested

Functional tests, positive and negative, with a variety of preconditions. These tests will have a set of assertions.
Automated tests: Positive #1 and Negative #2 were automated. It would be desirable to automated as much as possible the functional test cases.


>>>>Features not to be tested :
    As an example: different charsets inserted as texts in the required fields

Definition of test data generation: It could be interesting to test massively with randomly generated data.
This generated data will be available in the properties file so we can conduct a Data Driven Test.

Testing tools: selenium webdrive for automated funcional testing. 
               Required libraries loaded via Maven in order to have the POM updated properly.
               JMeter for stress/load testing - definition of base lines for carrying out non-fucntional tests (load, stress, endurance, volume).
			    

Risk analysis: Recommendable to perform a Security test for the web page. There are online pages than can scan for free the
Liferay web page and generate a report.
Example:  https://observatory.mozilla.org/analyze/forms.liferay.com
